Now to a real database,
I'll use MongoDB and I do already cover MongoDB
throughout this course.
I have whole sections dedicated to it,
so check out these sections if anything
is unclear about MongoDB.
It's a no SQL database and we can install it locally.
On mongodb.com you will find instructions
on how to do that, but you can also try it for free
and get started with MongoDB atlas,
which is basically a cloud service,
a cloud hosting service for a MongoDB database
and you can get started with it for free.
Just fill out this form here,
create an account and once you did that,
you will be walked through a wizard
to create a new MongoDB cluster.
If you do walk through the creation wizard
for the first time, just make sure that you use
the free tier option in all the places
where you have a choice.
Again, I do cover this in the MongoDB course module already.
Now, once you did create a cluster and you logged in,
you'll be greeted with something like this.
Now first of all, you should make sure
that under database access, you have at least one user
and you'll then need to set a password here,
which you memorize because we'll need that
to connect on our fronted application.
In addition under network access,
make sure that you add your current IP address here
to make sure that your local application
is able to send requests to your cluster.
And once you did all that,
we can connect our Deno app.
To do that, we'll use another third party module
because there turns out to be a MongoDB module.
Here it is, the Mongo module.
The Mongo module makes connecting and working
to and with a Mongo database very, very easy.
You get some basic documentation here
but in the end, this is just a wrapper
for the native Rust MongoDB library
and Rust is simply a programming language,
which is being used by Deno under the hood.
So, Deno is built with Rust
and you typically don't need to care about this
but here it matters because that means
that the MongoDB library for Rust also works with Deno.
All you need is a wrapper and this package here,
this module here, deno_mongo, is such a wrapper.
So, you will just be able to use it
in types with code without worrying about anything else.
Now, when it comes to using it,
we can copy this import here,
here you also see a version being locked in, in the URL,
which is always a good idea.
It ensures that this code will also work in month
or two from now.
So, I will copy this URL here
and now with that copied, we wanna use it in the place
where we want to connect to the database.
Now it's up to you where you wanna do that.
I'll add a new folder, Helpers
and in there add a db.ts file.
And I'll put my database management logic in there.
This is an optional pattern but one I'd like to use here.
So, now I import Mongo client from this Mongo library here
in the db.ts file and you'll now see how we can connect
with these lines here.
And with this line, we then also establish a connection
to a database and then even to a specific collection.
As you learned in the Mongo course section,
MongoDB works with collections and documents.
I'll copy these three lines here, over into db.ts
and with that we first of all instantiate
the imported Mongo client,
then we use this client object
to connect with a URL
and now here we need to provide the URL
to our MongoDB cluster.
So, back on the cluster,
if you click on connect and then connect your application,
we get that URL.
So, we can just copy this full URL
and then insert it here.
Now, we need to insert our data for the username
and for the password and you don't need to copy my password,
it will be changed when you're watching this.
So, insert your username and your password here,
then you can remove this db name thing here
and just have mongodb.net? and then those query parameters
and with that the client will go ahead
and connect to this URL.
Thereafter, we can switch to a specific database
by calling database on the client
and that's something I'll do here.
And I'll connect to the todos database,
however, the name is up to you,
maybe name it todo-app, really up to you.
And I'll also rename this file to, db_client.
As a side note, the official Deno style guide recommends
that your file names should be, well named like this.
If you multiple words that you wanna combine together,
you should use a underscore, not a dash.
In Node, you would typically use a dash,
in Deno, they want you to use a underscore.
Technically, it makes no difference
but of course here, I wanna follow the Deno style guide,
so I'll use db_client.
Back to the database though, with that we're setting up
our database here and now we want to make sure
that we can use this database from outside this file.
To ensure that this is possible,
I'll create a new function here,
getDb and I'll return my database here.
Now, why am I using this approach?
I'm using this approach because I'll also wrap
the other functionality here into a connect function.
The reason for that is,
that now I wanna export both connect and getDB
and we can then call connect from inside app.ts for example
and getDB from inside todos to get access to the DB.
For this pattern to work,
I'll just make sure that I set up my DB as a variable
and set the type to database,
which is a type you can also import from the mod.ts file
from the Mongo library.
And then I assign a value here to DB in line 11,
instead of the connect function
and we always return the latest DB object here in getDb.
I use this pattern to make sure
that whenever we reach out to the database,
we really are guaranteed to get connected database.
Now, we can export this connect function
and export getDb and now in app.ts, I wanna call connect.
So therefore here, I'll go to app.ts
and import connect in curly braces
from ./helpers/db_client.ts
and then simple call connect,
maybe here before we set up the application,
wherever you want.
We need the curly brace import here
because connect is a named export
and you'll learn more about named exports
in the modern JavaScript with Node section.
In the end, this is a named export
because we have the export keyword right in front
of the function declaration
and we're exporting multiple things in this file by name,
because we have multiple export statements.
So this is how we import connect,
we then execute it and this should be it.
And now in todo.ts,
we can also import something from the Helpers folder,
db_client.ts and that something is the getDb function
and now we can continue with that
and we can call this function whenever we wanna get access
to the database and then we can use the database
to store data, get data and so on.
So, let's do that next.